README.md, before:

# SplootCode Editor

A structured editor for writing and running Python.

For progress updates, please join the mailing list on [splootcode.io](https://splootcode.io/).

<img src="screenshot2.png" alt="Screenshot of SplootCode example" width="800">

With a regular text-based programming language, the first step to process it is to parse it into an abstract-syntax-tree.
In the SplootCode editor, the user edits the tree directly and that tree can then include more semantic meaning.

Code no longer has to rely on cryptic punctuation characters and whitespace to represent structure. Instead the layout can be auto-generated, depending on screen size and user preferences.

SplootCode aims to be a tree-editing interface that's fast, compact, intuitive and provides the full flexibility and expressiveness of regular text-based Python code.

## Goals
 * An unrestricted implementation of Python
 * Fast and easy to edit using a keyboard and autocomplete
 * Continuous runtime feedback without the need for a step-by-step debugger
 * Help developers avoid syntax errors and other common programming errors
 * Avoid needless busywork like escaping, bracket matching, wrapping and whitespace
 * Let beginners focus on the logic of their code rather than the syntax
 * Make language features and functions easy to discover and use

Being a web app, SplootCode uses [Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/) (CPython compiled to WebAssembly) to run Python in the browser.

## Development
### Requirements
You'll need to have Python, [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/) and [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) installed.

### Local Dev
Install dependencies:

```
$ yarn install
```

Generate type information for built-in variables and functions.

```
$ yarn generate-types
```

There are two main parts to this project, the editor and the runtime which is an iframe which executes the code.
You will need to build and run dev webservers for both the main editor and the runtime iframe.

```
$ yarn start
```

And in a separate terminal, run this serve the runtime iframe:
```
$ yarn start-frame
```

The app should become availble at `http://localhost:3000`. The runtime frame will be served from `:3001` and will be loaded automatically by the editor.

The main editor and frame communicate via `postMessage`, and they need to know each other's domains. This is configured in a dotenv file, e.g. `development.env`. If you change the above ports, you'll need to edit that file.

## License
If you're planning to use this for commercial purposes, please check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file. It is not a standard open source license.

Commit message:

Restructure code into separate packages. (#101)
* Make @splootcode/core a separately built package.

* Make @splootcode/components a separtely built package.

* Convert @splootcode/language-python to separate package.

* Make @splootcode/editor a separately built package.

* Make tests work again.

* Move runtime-python into separate package.

* Clean up duplicate imports and chunking

* Fix build and package depdendencies.

* Order yarn workspaces in dependency order.

* Update setup instructions.

README.md, after:

# SplootCode Editor

A structured editor for writing and running Python.

For progress updates, please join the mailing list on [splootcode.io](https://splootcode.io/).

<img src="screenshot2.png" alt="Screenshot of SplootCode example" width="800">

With a regular text-based programming language, the first step to process it is to parse it into an abstract-syntax-tree.
In the SplootCode editor, the user edits the tree directly and that tree can then include more semantic meaning.

Code no longer has to rely on cryptic punctuation characters and whitespace to represent structure. Instead the layout can be auto-generated, depending on screen size and user preferences.

SplootCode aims to be a tree-editing interface that's fast, compact, intuitive and provides the full flexibility and expressiveness of regular text-based Python code.

## Goals
 * An unrestricted implementation of Python
 * Fast and easy to edit using a keyboard and autocomplete
 * Continuous runtime feedback without the need for a step-by-step debugger
 * Help developers avoid syntax errors and other common programming errors
 * Avoid needless busywork like escaping, bracket matching, wrapping and whitespace
 * Let beginners focus on the logic of their code rather than the syntax
 * Make language features and functions easy to discover and use

Being a web app, SplootCode uses [Pyodide](https://pyodide.org/) (CPython compiled to WebAssembly) to run Python in the browser.

## Development
### Requirements
You'll need to have Python, [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/) and [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) installed.

### Local Dev
Install dependencies:

```
$ yarn install
```

Generate type information for built-in variables and functions (requires Python 3.8+).

```
$ yarn generate-types
```

Build the yarn workspace packages:

```
$ yarn build:packages
```

There are two main parts to this project, the editor and the runtime which is an iframe which executes the code.
You will need to build and run dev webservers for both the main editor and the runtime iframe.

```
$ yarn start
```

And in a separate terminal, run this serve the runtime iframe:
```
$ yarn start-frame
```

The app should become availble at `http://localhost:3000`. The runtime frame will be served from `:3001` and will be loaded automatically by the editor.

The main editor and frame communicate via `postMessage`, and they need to know each other's domains. This is configured in a dotenv file, e.g. `development.env`. If you change the above ports, you'll need to edit that file.

## License
If you're planning to use this for commercial purposes, please check the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file. It is not a standard open source license.
